Routers exchange information about routes using different methods
but as an example, OSPF uses link-state updates
to advertise information about routes that are available in the network topology.
This puts overhead on the network because additional traffic is sent
and received by routers as they communicate with 1 another.
However, as the network grows there’s an exponential increase in the amount of work
that would be required if static routes where used
and thus because of the advantage that dynamic routing protocols
put less overhead and workload on administrators to maintain routing tables
they are used in most networks today especially larger networks
with the largest being the internet which runs on BGP or Border Gateway Protocol
and once again dynamic routing protocols can adjust to changes
in the topology automatically and without administrator intervention.